aa's Health Ministry says at least 15
children have died from malnutrition and
dehydration at just one Hospital in the
past few days for weeks the UN has been
warning that 10,000 children in Gaza are
at risk of starvation in this video from
northern Gaza a mother is mourning the
death of her child she told a
Palestinian journalist her daughter died
of malnutrition and lack of oxygen
doctors at the hospital said the child
was lacking clinical vitamins and
minerals my daughter has died she passed
away due to malnutrition all vitamins
and minerals drop sharply in my
daughter's body with an accepting heart
all I can do is pray to God one
I this child was suffering an acute lack
of oxygen and severe malnutrition we did
our best to save our life unfortunately
the child died we do not know how many
like her will
follow well let's now speak to Adele
hter who's reach reg director for Middle
East and North Africa for Unicef the
un's Children's Fund she's joining us
from Aman in Jordan thank you very much
Adel for speaking to Al jazer so we have
15 children dead because of
malnutrition in Kamal adwin Hospital in
Northern Gaza alone what is the rate the
number of children across the Gaza Strip
who have died because of lack of proper
nutrition thank you um of course these
are the children that we know about when
we reported about this this morning in
our statement we had information uh
about 10 children but then in the
afternoon you are saying there are
reportedly 15 children so the number is
on the rise and this is the number
reported only from One hospital so we
really do not know about uh what's
happening to other children to whom we
do not have access or to whom the
ministry of health does not have uh
enough access or information yeah what
we know and what we have yeah yeah go
ahead please finish your thought and
then I'll get to my next question go
ahead yeah I mean what we know and what
we have been warning about is that
access to humanitarian Aid and the
delivery of a humanitarian Aid can
really reduce the proportion of
malnutrition among children one and six
children in Northern Gaza one and six
children which means 15% % of children
in Northern Gaza under the age of two
have severe acute malnutrition this
proportion is 5% so much less in the
areas where the aid is arriving yeah I
want to ask you about the disparities
before nor between North and South in
just a moment but I just wanted to find
out about the reasons a little bit more
and I think it's really important for
our audience to know why this is
happening why are these children dying
at such an alarming rate I've read that
such a decline in a population's
nutritional status is is unprecedented
globally in just three months why is
this happening at such an alarming
rate it's happening first because the
babies do not have the appropriate food
usually babies get breast milk from
their mothers and the mothers are very
malnourished we know that there are the
adults in Northern Gaza are getting one
meal per day and if a mother gets one
meal per day there is no way that she
can breastfeed the child and as a result
the child will not get all the nutrients
usually the breast milk is necessary for
everything for the child can give all
the nutrients but in these cases when
the mother cannot eat more than one meal
per day of course the child is going to
be malnourished they do not have the
babies also are not like the adults they
cannot eat the normal food that any
adult can uh eat we are hearing horrible
stories about what the people the adults
are eating and this type of food cannot
be given to babies the water the
availability of water the availability
of hygiene the fact that there is no
adequate water uh we our reports
indicate that uh the access to water in
the parts of Northern Raza is one liter
per day whereas under an emergency
condition the minimum is 3
lers so this of course will cause more
disease because they cannot take care of
the hygiene and how they are feeding the
babies yeah and in a situation of
electricity yeah I understand the
situation extremely um dire particularly
extreme I understand in Northern Gaza
the northern Gaza Strip which is almost
completely cut off from a talk to us
about that disparity between northern
and southern
Gaza yeah I mean we already said that
the
the the uh the the malnutrition is
really preventable and in in Northern
Gaza 15% of the children under two years
are suffering from severe acute
malnutrition this proportion and the
other parts of Raza is 5% which means
that when you we are able to have
humanitarian Aid delivered to the people
then the number of deaths among children
will be less so it is preventable right
and we can reduce the number of children
who are dying by making sure that we
deliver all the aid to the people who
need It Adele I just wanted to ask you
one last question I mean this war has
had a devastating toll on children a as
the un's children's agency your mandate
is to save children's lives prevent them
from dying of hunger defend their rights
you must feel today a sense of
helplessness Despair and even failure I
imagine for not being able to prevent
these children in D in Gaza from
dying well we never give up on children
that's for sure and we are trying
everything and in fact on the 1 of March
before two days we were able to deliver
a very small uh supply of vaccines and
of some essential uh medical supplies to
Northern Gaza but this is only one time
since the 23rd of January and that's not
enough so we need access but we will not
give up and we need access through
different routs we needs for the
bombardment to stop we need a ceasefire
to be able to deliver to the the
children what they need but we will
never give up our teams are still on the
ground trying to reach as much as they
can nor than Gaza and sometimes putting
their own lives under danger to be able
to reach those children but we need for
all the land routs to be open and we
need definitely a ceasefire that will
enable us to reach those that are most
in need but we will never give up thank
you very much for speaking to us Adele h
Regional director for Middle East and
North Africa for Unicef thank you for
your
time thank you